COUPA

Round 1:

what are indexes. when do we use them. why they are faster.

write a query to find duplicates names in employee table.

write a query to find second highest salary.

write a query to find how many empolyee a manger have in which employee id is used as manager id in same table. (self join)

there is a url like https://mail.google.com/hash and hashed value (hash) with the long url is in database. 
write a program to get the long url.

write a alternatives for the above queries.

what is diffrence between any and in.

what is polymorphism.

write a program o find the duplicate numbers in array. optimize it.

...there were some more questions mostly therotical

Do you have any questions?



Round 2:

Which architecture you used in your recent project.

what is mvc.

draw layers of your project.

how you connected fron end and backend.

what are components in react.

what is state in react.

have you used redux in your project.

did you used any liberaries for authentication and authorization. how did you do it.

how will you write code if you wanted to produce a list table on one component on an click event in other 
component.

what if there were multiple list tables of diffrent structure

how will you handle it.

write a flow code for payment which can happen through two options creadit card or upi. what will input you 
will take and  what will you return.

how will you achive loose coupling.

how will you pass mode of payment information from front end because string could be unsafe.

what is loose coupling.

what is factory method pattern.

design a lift system.

which classes,variables, methods and datastructure would be present.

Do you have any questions?


Round 3:

How your rounds went.

what is your project.

how was team structure.

what did you do.

challenges faced during project.(after telling one challenge there was a discussion on it).

project specific questions.

what is abstraction. why we use it in real life.

what is interface. eg.

what will be the code if you want to send email to each customer daily. optimize it.

what is multithreading.

what is optimistic locking.

which application you use the most insta, fb etc;

what you like about it. three four times same qeustion.

what feature you will add in the existing applications.

Do you have any questions?